#summary Differences between the tf4mono TF client, and the standard client.
#labels Featured

A quick overview of the areas where the tf4mono TF client may be more useful and where it is currently less useful than the standard MS TF client.

= Shortcomings =
 # Help documentation not as extensive.
 # Not as many GUI popup dialogs.
 # No current support for branch merges.
 # No current support for graphical conflict resolution.
 # Missing *branch*, *lock*, *merge*, *merges*, *resolve*, *shelve*, *unshelve*, and *[http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/library/y7505w2x(VS.80).aspx undelete]* commands.
 # Implemented commands may not support all options available in standard TF client.

= Improvements (YMMV) =

== General ==
 # Get Latest on Checkout option (will be in Orcas release of TF)
 # Multiple commands can be chained together in a single TF execution separated by the "%" character. For example, *tf online % checkin /comment:"applied patch 501"*. Commands can feed their output to the next command in the chain with %%, for example *tf ls-files /others %% add* to add all unknown files.
 # Builtin general help and per-command help, accessible via *tf help <cmd>*
 # Supports file attributes on unix.
 # Command argument ordering much more forgiving than standard client.
 # *tf undo* with no args will undo all pending changes
 # *tf explore* command for built in viewer GUI supporting multiple repository views, syntax highlighting, etc. (on unix platforms only in 0.5.2)
 # Can display local workspace cache configuration with *tf show cache* (often very helpful when debugging TFS issues)

== Diffs ==
 # Unified diffs are actually appliable with gnu patch.
 # Does tree wide diffs
 # Can show what files you've changed locally but haven't checked out with *tf diff /modified*.
 # Can show what files are out of date with latest server version with *tf diff /old*.
 # Can show pending changes as a diff with *tf diff*.

== Configuration ==
 # *Supports read-write working folders*.
 # Supports credential caching via XML files or the Gnome Keyring.

Numerous persisted configuration options are offered. Here's my config:
{{{
(/usr/local/src/opentf) tf config
Client Configuration:
  Checkin.Validate:	true
  Checkout.Latest:	true
  Credentials.Save:	true
  File.Excludes:	*.dll,*.pdb,core,.git/
  File.ReadWrite:	true
  Get.Recursive:	true
  History.DefaultToCwd:	true
  History.Detailed:	true
  History.Recursive:	true
  History.StopAfter:	10
  Online.Recursive:	true
  Server.Default:	10.100.1.88
}}}

== Powertool Commands ==
 # Integrated tfpt *treeclean* command.
 # Integrated tfpt *online* command. Online command supports _/added, /modified, and /deleted_ options. Standard client only supports "/deleted". Also supports passing a list of files to speed up operation (rather than scanning the entire working folder). Useful in scenarios when you've applied a patch. Than do tf online `lsdiff <name of patch>`;

== Show Command ==

The *show* command can be used to explore many behind the scenes aspects of TFS.
A few example are shown below.

{{{
> tf help show

Show information about build configuration, cache settings, identity 
info, usage statistics, or registered tools.

Usage: show [ build | cache | ident | stats | tools ]

Options:
  /login:ARG        	Login name (also /Y:ARG)
  /server:ARG       	Server name. (also /S:ARG)
  /workspace:ARG    	Workspace name (also /W:ARG)

> tf show stats

Files:           3279591
Folders:         214276
Groups:          4822
Pending Changes: 182284
Shelvesets:      116
Users:           185
Workspaces:      119

>tf show tools

VersionControl
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ArtifactTypes: 

  Changeset
  Label
  LatestItemVersion
  VersionedItem

Databases: 

  TeamFoundation Logging DB: TfsActivityLogging on tfs-db01
  VersionControl DB: TfsVersionControl on tfs-db01

ServiceInterfaces: 

  Download: /VersionControl/v1.0/item.asmx
  IBISEnablement: /VersionControl/v1.0/integration.asmx
  IProjectMaintenance: /VersionControl/v1.0/integration.asmx
  ISCCAdmin: /VersionControl/v1.0/administration.asmx
  ISCCProvider: /VersionControl/v1.0/repository.asmx
  LinkingProviderService: /VersionControl/v1.0/integration.asmx
  Upload: /VersionControl/v1.0/upload.asmx
}}}

_tf show tools output truncated!_

== File Listing ==

The *ls-files* command shows known, deleted, modified, old, or unknown files under the given path via the options _ /deleted, /modified, /old, /unknown_ .