#summary Notes on features added in each release
#labels Featured

=Version 0.6=

A development release with the following changes:

==New Features==
 # CRUISECONTROL: add support for date range queries to the history command, e.g. -version:"D2006-10-01T01:01:01Z~D2006-12-13T20:00:00Z"
 # CRUISECONTROL: add -noprompt option
 # CRUISECONTROL: add support for username@domain -login syntax
 # TFSBOT: add new IRC commit notification daemon.
 # add alpha-quality MonoDevelop addin, with debian package
 # implement "tf shelve <name> <path>" to create new shelvesets
 # implement "tf shelve /delete <name>" for deleting shelvesets
 # implement "tf merges <src> <dest>" for listing merge points
 # implement "tf diff /ignorespace" option
 # implement "tf rollback <changeset>" for undoing a changeset. NOTE: only useful if no one else has changed the file since then.
 # add Get.ChangesetMtimes setting: By enabling this option, the TF will set the modification time of any file subsequently fetched to the date of the last changeset in which the file was modified. Warning: this mode of operation can significantly slow down "tf get". 
 # add Get.DefaultToCwd setting: By enabling this option, the TF client will look for updates starting with the current working folder instead of pulling updates from all registered working folders.
 # add Workspace.Default setting: If the TF client cannot determine the active workspace, first from the "/workspace:" option, and second the workspace cache, then it will use the Workspace.Default setting if non-null.

=Version 0.5.2=

A development release with the following changes:

==New Features==

 # add VS2005 project files and solution for building opentf on Windows
 # add spec file for building RPMs on OpenSuse
 # add "lock" command
 # add "show stats" command to show server statistics
 # add "show tools" command to show registered tools
 # add "show build" command to show build configuration
 # add "show ident" command to show server account information
 # rename "tf cache" to "tf show cache"
 # implement "tf changeset /latest" and test case
 # implement "tf history /user:FOO" for filtering history queries by user
 # implement "tf history /version:<vspec>" - but not ranges!
 # add "tf history /format:byowner" and test case
 # add "tf version" command to print program version number
 # add "Server.Default" setting
 # teach File.Excludes to support directory specifications as well as file glob patterns
 # teach tf shelveset the "name;owner" syntax for specifying a shelveset

==Bugfixes==

 # BUGFIX: rework exit codes throughout for more consistency
 # BUGFIX: tf shelveset /owner:<owner> should filter results by owner
 # BUGFIX: add column headers to history /format:brief output
 # BUGFIX: tf get /force shouldn't set preview mode!
 # BUGFIX: properly label renames in tf status output
 # BUGFIX: make sure all files in a directory are read-write before attempting to delete a directory containing these files
 # BUGFIX: handle QueryHistory requests with maxCount > 256

== API Enhancements ==

 # The following classes were added (partial implementations): ICredentialsProvider, ArtifactType, ChangeType, Database, IGroupSecurityService, IRegistration, Identity, IdentityType, QueryMembership, OutboundLinkType, RegistrationEntry, SearchFactor and ServiceInterface classes

 # Implement VersionControlServer.GetLatestChangesetId
 # Implement TeamFoundationServer.CheckAuthentication
 # Started work on Microsoft.TeamFoundation.WorkItemTracking.Client assembly

=Version 0.5.1=

A development release with the following changes:

==New Features==

 # add *tf explore* command for visually browsing a repository, sortable changeview columns, control-c to copy a changelist entry
 # add gtk login dialog for missing auth credentials
 # *tf undo* with no args will undo all local changes, previously the command required at least one filename or path
 # add usage guidance for each command, displayed via *tf help foo*
 # report on UndonePendingChange events (which can happen if file upload fails on checkin for example)
 # all commands now support reading arguments from stdin
 # command chaining now supports output piping using %%. Implemented for ls-files and diff /q commands only! For example, you can say *tf ls-files /others %% add* to add all unknown files to the repository.
 # support wildcards in checkout paths
 # teach *tf workspaces* command to filter by workspace name if requested
 # 8 new test cases for tf client program

==Bugfixes==
 # BUGFIX: *tf rename <olddir> <newdir>* should work now
 # BUGFIX: teach diff /modified to check file hashes before reporting a modified file
 # BUGFIX: when told to delete a directory, delete files within them too
 # BUGFIX: implement CheckAuthentication call - this makes adding large numbers of files more reliable as it prevents NTML authentication timeout related failures
 # BUGFIX: on windows, must do case insensitive path comparisons when looking for cached workspace info
 # BUGFIX: tf online <list-of-files> didn't pickup deletes to pend
 # BUGFIX: GetLocalWorkspaceInfo(string path) should trim workspaceinfo directory separators before looking for a match
 # BUGFIX: TryGetServerItemForLocalItem and TryGetLocalItemForServerItem should find longest match                                                             
 # BUGFIX: teach tf workfold /unmap to accept relative paths
 # BUGFIX: always sort items in an ItemSet (sorts tf dir output for example)

=Version 0.5.0=

A development release with the following changes:

==New Features==
 # Add "tf shelvesets" command (brief output only)
 # Add support for writable working folders
 # Implement tf help <cmd> with display of valid options for each command.
 # Add "tf branches" command (limited testing)
 # Add tf online <list of files>
 # Add tf diff /brief option
 # Support for tf add /recursive <path>
 # 20 new test cases for tf client program
 # Add "tf help /list" helper for shell completion
 # Add progress indicator to GetCommand when setting permissions
 # Add History.StopAfter setting option
 # Add --disable-magic configure option for windows/cygwin users
 # Add configure option "--with-mslibs=<dir>" to build just the TF client using the standard MS Team Foundation Assemblies

==Bugfixes==

 # BUGFIX: don't try to upload new directories on checkin, only files
 # BUGFIX: Command.VerifiedFullPaths should accept directories too
 # BUGFIX: shell wrapper tf should quote $@ so /C:"This is my comment" will work
 # BUGFIX: uninstall man page and pkg-config file too
 # BUGFIX: fix /format:detailed output for added files in history cmd
 # BUGFIX: tf delete <folder> should actually delete the folder
 # BUGFIX: honor excludeFiles setting in tf ls-files /writable

=Version 0.4.7=

A maintenance release with the following updates:

==New Features==
 # Implement label and unlabel commands.
 # Add "cache" command which shows workspace cache settings.
 # Add /added, /modified, /deleted flags to Online command to show just additions, just modifications, or just deletions respectively. These flags may be combined. With no flags, all changes are incorporated.
 # Add tf diff /modified option to show locally modified files as a unified diff. Can be used to review changes before using the online command.
 # Add File.Excludes config option. Use in "online" command.
 # Add Online.Recursive setting. Make default non-recursive to match standard MS client.
 # Add tf ls-files /writable option (mainly for windows users)

==Bugfixes==
 # BUGFIX: Fixed multiple issues related to running tf4mono on windows. These include deleting read-only files and deleting files still open, which succeed on unix platforms, but not on windows.
 # BUGFIX: Online command on windows. Replace server item path separator with platform path separator.
 # BUGFIX: Replace windows path separators in diff headers with nix path separator so /usr/bin/patch is happy
 # BUGFIX: Show deleted files in tf status as state "Deleted" not "544"
 # BUGFIX: Compare file hashes when looking for modifications in tf online command. Previously just looked for files marked writable.

=Version 0.4.6=

A maintenance release with the following updates: 

 # Add Checkout.Latest option to ensure checkout of latest version of file    rather than workspace version. This is a common complaint of TFS users - that the latest version is not checked out by default. An option like "Checkout.Latest" has been added to the next version of the Visual Studio TFS client.
 # Add Get.Recursive and History.DefaultToCwd config options for those looking to override the less helpful defaults of the standard client. 
 # BUGFIX: when uploading new/changed files, send correct file length. Reported by Martin Woodward - many thanks.
 # BUGFIX: several diff fixes, including off by one error for files not ending in "\n", new file diff format fixes, and B file context calculation fixes
 # BUGFIX: Online, TreeClean, and ls-files command should pull item list based on WorkspaceVersion not LatestVersion.
 # BUGFIX: dont print blank lines for directories and new files for ls-files /old subcommand.
 # BUGFIX: send local version updates to server after pending deletes.
 # BUGFIX: trailing slash on path confused online command
 # BUGFIX: add support for local paths to dir subcommand, and output listing in a more unix-y format (which is, imho, far more useful)
 # HELP: Warn that invalid options can be mistaken for paths.
 # HELP: Add more CodePlex usage examples to README 

=Version 0.4.4=

==Major Feature Additions==
 # add diff command with support for diff against server latest, diff of pending changes, diff view of any changeset.
 # add basic version of TF Power Tool 1.1 "online" command to tf.exe, includes /preview mode.
 # add basic version of TF Power Tool 1.2 "treeclean" command to tf.exe, includes /preview mode.
 # add support for response file processing and multiple commands on a single command line, please see documentation for usage	  
 # add changeset and help commands
 # add configure command with options "Checkin.Validate", "Credentials.Save", and "History.Recursive". See man page for more details.
 # if "Credentials.Save" is set to true, the tf client can load/store credentials from the gnome-keyring or TfClient.config.


==Minor Enhancements==

 # read server setings from cache file, don't need /server quite as much now
 # add /format:detailed option to history command
	
 # undoing a delete restores the file now
 # numerous API additions including: WorkspaceVersionSpec, IDiffItem, DiffItemVersionedFile, DiffOutputType, DiffOptionFlags, DiffOptions, Conflict*, ExceptionEvent* types and more
 # add DisplayString property for all VersionSpec classes
 # prompts for password if not provided on the command line
 # better man page and error messages
 # more test cases

==Bugfixes==

Many bugfixes from running TF client against Microsoft's TFS assemblies

 # BUGFIX: when a file is checked in mark it should be marked read-only
 # BUGFIX: do case insensitive string comparisons in ls-files and online commands on windows, and use Path.DirectorySeparatorChar
 # BUGFIX: GetLocalWorkspaceInfo should find longest matching path, not first matching path
 # BUGFIX: tf get should use CWD only to find workspace
 # BUGFIX: properly handle checkin of files marked read-only
 # BUGFIX: on windows find correct TFS VersionControl.config file

=Version 0.4.2=
  # tf.exe supports two new commands: "ls-files" and "properties". ls-files has options to show modified, out-of-date, unknown, and locally deleted file listings. This functionality doesn't exist in the Microsoft tf.exe client, and may be a reason to run tf4mono tf.exe on Windows.
  # tf.exe undo command restores original file from server to local repository now
  # tf.exe now compiles/runs on MS CLR. 
  # Add support for querying ExtendedItems. 
  # Debian packages via "make dist"
  # Add GettingEventHandler, PendingChangeEventHandler, ProcessingChangeEventHandler, and OperationStatus.
  # Many bug fixes were made to APIs, and client utility while testing on Windows.
  # Start of MonoDevelop plugin based on Subversion plugin. Work in progress.
  # Lots of code cleanups and bug fixes. Improved handling of ~/.tf/VersionControl.config cache.

=Version 0.4=
Adds support for the add, delete, checkout, checkin, history and rename commands. Support for computing file permissions via libmagic also added, as TFS servers do not themselves track/store file permissions. Many API additions, bug fixes, and documentation updates
were also made.

=Version 0.3=
Much better support for tracking a repository, including new files, deleted files, and renames. A preliminary man page has been added, and utility commands like add, delete, checkout, and rename modify the state of the server. The checkin command has a mysterious bug which prevents these modifications from being added back to the repository,
but that should be cleaned up soon.